um i'm move nice to meet everyone
um and today i'm going to be talking
about
ipfs fetch specifically i want to look
at how
i've combined some of the usual webby
interfaces we're used to with some of
these cool
peer-to-peer interfaces we're used to in
ipfs
so there's my intro stuff that's for it
later
um i wanted to talk about how the web is
good um i really love the web i think
it's it really kind of changed me
um as a developer years ago when i
started using web tech migrating from
crazy stuff like java and c plus plus
and it was just so much
easier i could just slap together a text
file put some html on a page put a
little javascript and
jquery stuff together just to make
something work and then suddenly
everything worked cross-platform i
didn't have to worry about like
sending people um executables worrying
about which
uh platform they're on and making sure
everything um
actually displayed properly it just kind
of makes things work
and i really like how it kind of lowers
the barrier to entry to creating cool
things
however the web as it is right now is
also tied with something that i think
is not as cool and that's servers um
i think servers are bad
on one hand they enabled us to build up
these networks of sharing information
but on the other hand
as an individual a server is a barrier
to entry
it requires more expertise in order to
get
anything started for instance you either
need to like
have your own machine running locally or
have some sort of virtual machine and
then you need to think about like what
kind of web servers you're going to host
and
all of this stuff especially um
with the with servers and the web
everything
is kind of hinging around these servers
if i made some sort of cool
like blog and i want to share it with my
friends i have to go through a server
if that server goes offline suddenly my
friends can't access it
or if say somebody doesn't have internet
or can't afford
a fancy internet connection or say um
you know twitter goes down again
suddenly all of that data is gone
um it's kind of a pain and i feel like
it's
holding people back from the stuff that
they can create
so um one thing that's
kind of been popping up lately is
third-party services
that offer hosting for a small fee so
instead of me having to like set up my
own server and configure it and
make sure everything is online i can pay
money or
pay data to some third party and then
they'll kind of do everything for me
which is great except then
the thing isn't really totally mine if
say
it's a google product it'll probably you
know die within a few months
or get deprecated later on or say if
it's any other tech thing it might
just change under my feet or um run out
of business
and suddenly any sort of community i
built anything
that i did with that is just gone
because um
it's too hard for me to set up um it'd
be nice if
none of this stuff was a problem like i
want the web without all of these
servers and all of this extra crust
so with that in mind i think
peer-to-peer
um is kind of the thing that changes
everything
uh so obviously this is an
ipfs meetup so i think most people are
comfortable with peer-to-peer but just
to reiterate
uh with the server situation everyone
connects to this one central source
with peer-to-peer people connect
directly to each other
so if i want to make a blog i can send a
link to a friend and then they can
download
that blog directly from me and then if a
third person wants to
view my blog then they can download it
directly for me
and my friends and anyone else that has
a copy and what's cool is
i didn't need to set up a server
hopefully um
to get this running i just kind of put
some files in a folder
and then it just works which
i think is really great and enables a
whole bunch of
use case use cases including stuff
working over local mesh networks
or offline first say i'm in an airplane
and i want to
mess with all my data centralized
server based apps can do these use cases
but it's a lot harder
whereas when you build on peer-to-peer
first it's only way easier
so what is peer-to-peer
and the web combined good what would
that even
look like for instance right now um
let's think about like how people
actually interact with the web on a
slightly lower level so the web
right now is made on http which is
a protocol that servers speak it uses
urls
so links to to resources
it uses http methods which is like
um phrases that you're saying to the
server for instance i want to get some
data i want to post some data to the
server
i want to delete this data different
kind of um actions that you want the
server to do for a given url
and then normally how we interact with
this is we load a web page
or we load a video or we load some
javascript
in a web page that does something
interesting um
developers these days use an interface
called
fetch so if you have some sort of fancy
react
app it's a pretty good chance that
somewhere
underneath that stack there's a call to
this fetch api in the browser
so with that in mind i want to propose
what a peer-to-peer web
might look like so what if
the same way we could get data from um
http we could get data from ipfs
or ipns for instance i take an ipfs link
with a hash i shove it in my browser or
i shove it in my application and then it
can load the data
similarly i wanted to resolve mutable
data
through ipns automatically um and that's
actually something we kind of have
already via stuff like ipfs companion
and various gateways and
integrations into apps so kind of the
new thing i want to introduce here
is the idea of posting to ipfs
so right now if you want to add stuff to
ipfs you need to use one of these
apis you either need to talk to some
sort of um
http server again through an interface
or you need to use a pure javascript
implementation or you're using
a go library or rust or whatever else
they all have these like their own way
of speaking
to ipfs with the web what if we could
take that exact same metaphor
and shove it into ipfs and then
similarly what if we could take
a similar metaphor and put it into ipns
for instance with ipns just for those
that haven't looked into it yet
it lets you take a ipfs
url it lets you take a name of some sort
of key that you own
and then it lets you publish those
together and gives you a special ipns
url
which is kind of like an ipfs url that
can change over time
so i think these tools are
fairly accessible and uh
in fact what i've done is i've
integrated it into
a web browser called aggregor so in fact
that's what i'm using to load this
presentation right now
i'm not loading the presentation from
ipfs so i'm cheating a little bit
but i could um
so my idea is what if we can take all of
these different peer-to-peer protocols
for instance the hypercore protocol
which i'm using to load my slides
ipfs and ipns for storing data um
maybe ethereum in the mix for
interacting with
blockchains what we can what if we could
take all of these different
primitives and kind of simplify them for
average web developers
like if i know how to post something to
an http server
it should be even easier for me to post
something to ipfs or
ens or ethereum in general i think
that's one of the goal for me with this
web browser is to one build javascript
interfaces for these different fetch
apis
so that applications can integrate them
into their apps separately
but also to see what it would be like to
have a web browser that mixes all of
these things
at the protocol level
so i'm going kind of fast so hopefully
i'll have time for
the demo and it doesn't fail
spectacularly
so um here is my web browser
here we have the chrome dev tools
just to prove that there's no tricks if
i could actually type
so let's explore what it means to get
data from
a web page for instance what if
what if we fetch something from google
so
the fetch api takes a url and then some
options for the request
so here what we're going to do is use
the the boring old legacy web
and do a fetch request to google.com and
see if we can get
oh no google doesn't want that oh no
i should have used the different url
here um
there um let's request my vlog because
it's less
secure
so we've made a request we see this time
it didn't fail
which is great and what we can do is
actually get the contents
of my blog's um homepage so
we've just got an html string with a
bunch of junk
doesn't matter so now that's cool
how do we translate that to ipfs
so right now if i want to use ipfs i
need to import a bunch of libraries
even though they're really great and
it's been a joy to work with them
but it's like a new thing to learn as a
web developer what if instead of
importing jsi pfs or some native library
i can just fetch directly from ipns
say i want to get the ipn
uh ipfs homepage so again i do the
request it will take a little bit longer
to load
because um my cache isn't
hot if that makes sense
um but subsequent requests are a lot
faster so
that first delay there it was fetching
data from ipfs onto my browser
and then just now it was serving it from
cache and so it should be available
offline
but again we just like we did with
google.org with my blog
we can look at what the text for the
ipfs homepage is
and it's just some html and so what's
cool
any url that uses ipns or ipfs
could just be shoved into this fetch
interface the exact same way that you
would
with um with uh
http and it's the exact same thing that
you would use
with um uh images or videos or whatever
else instead of having to have a special
plugin to load something from say a
gateway or
loading in memory or doing something
crazy like what webtorrent does where it
downloads chunks on the flies and
builds up a video stream in javascript
whoa
we can just paste the link in the exact
same way that we're used to
with regular
web apps so next i'm going to showcase
the super difficult uh challenge of
getting stuff
onto ipfs which is going to be really
hard
many lines of code all we got to do is
again
we do a fetch request
and this time we're going to say ipfs
and what since we want to upload a file
to ipfs
we don't actually have a domain name
that we're uploading it to
we're just going to say ipfs colon slash
and then add a new slash and say
index.html
and then we're going to say that the
http method we're using
is post the default was get because uh
this time we want to upload some data
and we're going to say that the body is
some html so
i think i had a bug earlier where it
wasn't
loading after uploading so we'll see if
it works
fingers crossed um
so obviously we need a good doctype
and we need standards modern elements
so and
oh that's it i just created an ipfs
site whoa and if i want to get the url
for my new sites
i look at the response from the ipfs
protocol
and here i have a regular old ipfs
um url so this might be a little bit
different from what you're used to
in terms of urls because it doesn't
start with qm
um that's because we have to use a
different encoding
for web pages because uh
they're case insensitive whereas the
default ipfs
multi-hash encoding is case sensitive
um so uh
now that we have this url what if we
want to
update our mutable ips url
so similarly we'll do
another fetch request and this time
we're going to uh do a publish request
on ips
so in uh ipfs fetch you can just make up
whatever you want for your ipfs
uh sorry ipns name this will generate a
secret key
under the hood for that name and it'll
generate an ipns url for you
so this is useful as an application
developer because you don't have to
um manage keys yourself you just make up
a name and then
uh the protocol handler does it for you
so
let's call it my blog and then we'll say
method
publish and the body
will be our ipfs url that we just
created
so we're gonna do that wait for a bit
and then we can see our
new ipns url by looking at the response
whoa so that's a live demo i'm not going
to push my luck
to go further but you can see that with
this interface
the same stuff that web developers are
used to using for
getting data from http we can do with
ipfs
and uploading and loading data is
um super simple and it's using the exact
same web metaphor that we have for
all other files in web apps so
basically i just wanted to kind of show
this to everyone to show that
there's easier ways we can think about
protocols and i think
that a lot of protocols are actually
very similar and i think that
the way they work can be very beneficial
to the web
some of the things they've been seeing a
lot in the hypercore community is
webs web apps that kind of modify
themselves or create
themselves by kind of writing to their
own data and i think it'd be really cool
to see more stuff with ipfs that does
similar things
like say a blog publishing platform
which doesn't send anything to a server
which doesn't touch any extras
file system it's just a web app um
so hopefully this was useful hopefully
this will inspire people to make stuff
thank you for the time
you